README.md, before:

# ds6021-final-project
Final Project for Intro to Predictive Modeling Fall 2025

Predicting Cinematic Success:
A Multi-Model Analysis of Movie Ratings

Group: 3

Group Members:
Mason Earp, Nate Harris, Tianyin Mao, Sabine Segaloff, Nicholas Thornton

Data: Kaggle

In this project, we focused on movie data from Kaggle to answer the question: What factors lead to movie success, where success is defined by the average vote rating?

The jupyter notebook file, EDA.ipynb, contains the exploratory data analysis and predictive modeling (and machine learning) that we performed to gain our insights.


Dashboard ReadMe info:

Data: 
The Movies Dataset:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rounakbanik/the-movies-dataset

Target Variable:
vote_average

Predictor Variables:
    Financial metrics:
    - budget
    - revenue
    Audience engagement:
    - vote_count
    - user_rating_count
    Movie characteristics:
    - runtime
    - keyword_count
    - genres
    - original_language
    - release_year (is this the predictor? or the decade/eras we made?)
    - lead_actor (is this the predictor? or what we made to calculate popularity?)

Key Features:

Instructions:

Authors: Mason Earp, Nate Harris, Tianyin Mao, Sabine Segaloff, Nicholas Thornton
Created for DS6021 Final Project, Fall 2025.

Commit message:

added question to dash section

README.md, after:

# ds6021-final-project
Final Project for Intro to Predictive Modeling Fall 2025

Predicting Cinematic Success:
A Multi-Model Analysis of Movie Ratings

Group: 3

Group Members:
Mason Earp, Nate Harris, Tianyin Mao, Sabine Segaloff, Nicholas Thornton

Data: Kaggle

In this project, we focused on movie data from Kaggle to answer the question: What factors lead to movie success, where success is defined by the average vote rating?

The jupyter notebook file, EDA.ipynb, contains the exploratory data analysis and predictive modeling (and machine learning) that we performed to gain our insights.


Dashboard ReadMe info:

Data: 
The Movies Dataset:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rounakbanik/the-movies-dataset

The Question:
What factors lead to movie success, where success is defined by the average vote rating?

Target Variable:
vote_average

Predictor Variables:
    Financial metrics:
    - budget
    - revenue
    Audience engagement:
    - vote_count
    - user_rating_count
    Movie characteristics:
    - runtime
    - keyword_count
    - genres
    - original_language
    - release_year (is this the predictor? or the decade/eras we made?)
    - lead_actor (is this the predictor? or what we made to calculate popularity?)

Key Features:

Instructions:

Authors: Mason Earp, Nate Harris, Tianyin Mao, Sabine Segaloff, Nicholas Thornton
Created for DS6021 Final Project, Fall 2025.
